Team Terabyte - A3: Our IT Project

CONTENTS
1   TEAM PROFILE...............................................................2
1.1   Team Information.........................................................2
1.2   Test Results.............................................................2
1.3   Ideal Jobs...............................................................2
1.4   Group Processes..........................................................2
1.5   Career Plans.............................................................2
2   Tools......................................................................3
3   Project Description........................................................4


1 - Team Profile
Introduction to IT Group 7 - TEAM TERABYTE

1.1 - Team Information
Joel Baden - Student Number: S3855896 - Team Terabyte
From Geelong, however I have lived in Melbourne for 7 years and travel there
often as my base of operations for work and athletics training. My interests are
varied, as I grew up in a musical family I enjoy playing piano and guitar,
creating my own music and producing for others. I've previously studied
philosophy and enjoy a good argument around topics such as religion, logic,
meanings etc. IT has always been present in my life, from my first Gameboy,
playing games on desktops, recording music on specialised software, to
completing this course through online means. IT is an important aspect of my
daily life as I rely on my computer and mobile phone to complete many essential
tasks, including creating and recording music via virtual workstation. In a
professional sense, I'm interested in studying IT and programming due to the
growing demand in that sector.

Nathan Layt - Student Number: S3831623 - Team Terabyte
34 year old student from Brisbane. I went to school at Westside Christian
College then I went to work for Murrays Mining Services, a family company
specialising in underground coal mining machinery parts and repairs. I worked
as a Service Clerk then as a Sales Administrator at Komatsu and I worked as a
Geotechnician for Xstrata Mount Isa Mines. My interest in IT started when I was
very young and had a keen interest in computer games which lead to an interest
in building and upgrading computers. My IT experience started with what I
learned growing up with a PC and expands to the areas I learned and developed
throughout my career including MS Office Suite, database building and
administration, SAP experience and even basic programming of instrumentation.
Probably my favourite hobby is travelling, which is what lead to our project
idea. I started travelling overseas when I was 15 and I've been to over 20
countries, with long stays in Germany and Thailand. I have forgotten most of my
German language but I speak Thai ok with a north-eastern dialect.

Joseph Tselios - Student Number: S3858508 - Team Terabyte
24 year old student currently living in Melbourne, Australia. My parents are
from Greece and Italy, however I still consider myself to be Australian. My
education has been placed on hold for a few years since I started to work full
time at a very young age, however I'm back at it again with a focus on finding
a career that I'm passionate about. My hobbies are listening to music, working
out and, of course, League of Legends. I have very little experience in IT but I
hope that my education and professionalism will encourage employers to give me
an opportunity.

Anabel Gonzalez - Student Number S3858832 - Team Terabyte
31 year old student from Argentina, I moved to Australia eight years ago. My
native language is Spanish, I took English classes in high school but I'm mostly
self-taught. I finished my Diploma of Website Development two months ago and I
want to progress in my career by pursuing a Bachelors Degree. Over the last
couple of years I've been learning Graphic Design, on my own, which led me to
open an Etsy Shop where I sell digital products and services.

1.2 - Test Results
Since we have each completed 3 personality tests to better understand ourselves,
we are able to analyse the differences and similarities between group members.
The key takeaways from these tests are the type of personalities that we each
have and what we offer to the group.

While Joseph is classified as a 'protagonist' that is quite extroverted,
intuitive and feeling based, Nathan, Joel and Anabel were classified as being
the more introverted personality types. This suggests that Nathan, Joel and
Anabel should be able to quietly achieve things within the group, while Joseph
may be more likely to spark the start of a conversation, bringing new topics to
light so that all aspects of the project will be covered.

Interestingly, Nathan has the quality of being introverted but also providing
leadership towards the group, and this has been evident in our work so far.
Anabel is classified as a 'mediator' which is a very important personality to
have in a group. If conflict ever occurs, we may be able to look towards Anabel
to assess the situation and figure out conflict resolution quickly and easily.

1.3 Ideal Jobs
Within the group we see quite a bit of difference between each other's ideal
jobs, while containing some overlap in required knowledge, they are mostly
distinct in their end goals. Nathan, Joel and Anabel are all interested in what
appears to be frontend developing environments that involve user experience,
user interface designs and require an in-depth understanding of programming
languages like Javascript and CSS. Both Joel and Anabel's ideal jobs as a web
developer and as an iOS developer further require strong graphic design skills
and mobile app experience, despite the end products being different in nature -
website vs iOS applications. Nathan's job description, whilst requiring many of
the same skills, does not specify a particular platform to which the software
will be implemented, perhaps indicating a more general development role.
Joseph's ideal job for a Level 1 IT Help Desk position requires a different set
of skills, unique to the rest of the group, including telephone and remote
support for end-users, installation and configuring of client's desktops and
on-site technical support. This position does not involve developing products
but is more about technical support in the service industry. Although members of
the group are not currently qualified for their ideal jobs, everyone is working
towards it, either through the completion of a degree in IT with RMIT or other
relevant certificates.

1.4 Group Processes
The active members of the group worked well together in Assignment 2, to
overcome the disadvantage of inactive members, quickly adaping to the challenges
of working in a group to produce a satisfactory result. MS Teams proved a very
effective collaboration platform and will no doubt continue to serve the team
well in Assignment 3. Regular online meetings were very productive, the only
change that would be good in A3 is the attendance of all group members. A2
lacked the appropriate use of version control which affected group members that
were waiting on others to finish work instead of proper collaboration. The lack
of version control was also noted in feedback and had a negative effect on A2
marking, so the major process change for A3 will be the implementation of proper
version control through effective use of GitHub and any other relevant tools.

1.5 Career Plans
